We are half an hour from the open in
Hong Kong, Shenzhen and Shanghai. You're
watching the China Show. I'm Hardy
Strabots in Sydney
and I'm Annabelle Drooers in Hong Kong.
Our top stories, well, President Trump
flips the switch to risk off by
announcing plans for a 35% tariff on
Canada. The looney slides while Asian
stocks pair their games. Chinese foreign
minister Wongi set for a first meeting
today with his US counterpart Marco
Rubio, potentially paving the way for a
summit between Trump and Xiingping. and
ship stocks in focus as Nvidia's Jensen
Wong is said to meet with President
Trump ahead of the CEO's planned trip to
China.
[Music]
Well, amidst the ongoing uncertainty
when it comes to trade, we're getting a
few more nuances when it comes to this
latest levy on Canada. President Trump
is set to keep the tariff exemption when
it comes to the application to US MCA
goods according to a US official this
after the announcement that he would
impose a tariff of 35% on Canadian
products starting on August 1st in a
memo posted to Truth Social saying that
that tariff is separate from all
sectoral tariffs. There would be no
tariff if Canada decides to build or
manufacture products within the US. But
now we're getting some clarification
that the USMCA goods are exempt from
that additional tariff that was
announced just over the last hour or so.
And Bill, we very quickly saw that
market reaction when it comes to the
looney. How the rest of the markets
fairing with this letter trade latest
trade missive?
>> You know what I find so exceptional is
that all week we've been saying markets
are looking past the tariff headlines
when when things sort of seem to have
come down. President Trump isn't on his
social media platforms, but then he
posts something or he does an interview
like he he spoke with NBC and suddenly
the calculus just changes in an instant.
And we've seen that this morning because
as we said, Asian stocks have been
pairing their gains. We've seen the
dollar also moving off this. So clearly
traders are extremely sensitive to all
of these negotiations and you see that
as I said being reflected this morning
because you've seen that bit of a drop
in US futures even though we had a very
strong session overnight and a lot of
focus of course particularly on on the
tech space again we had that report of
of Jensen Hang meeting with President
Trump for instance what are they going
to be doing in the China market plus
also watching of course earnings and the
reaction there TSMC for instance but
that's the state of play as we look
ahead of course to to what exactly
awaits Chinese markets as they come
online this morning. But let's stick
with that top story, this bombshell that
President Trump has announced with his
with his plans for a 35% tariff on
Canadian goods from August 1. Our news
deskes editor Jill Dus is with us. So
Jill, I mean this this sort of like is a
is a is definitely a very fast evolving
story.
>> It is a very fast evolving story. It's
an escalation, but I do want to make
clear that those breaking lines that we
have just now um looking at the fact
that um this the USMCA that the trade
agreement between the US and Canada and
Mexico that those goods aren't included
in this 35% tariff threat. I think
that's really really important because
what that ultimately tells us then is
that what Trump's ultimately doing it
appears and again I I have to caution
this is a very quickly evolving story
but what that does mean potentially is
that this is a essentially a 10% tariff
increase over a group of goods uh that
were covered already with a 25% tariff.
So, if you recall back earlier this
year, uh that's that set of goods that
Trump has threatened um you know that
you know Trump impi Trump imposed 25%
tariffs over because he was citing the
fentinel uh crisis. Um that was a that
was a huge part of the story. So, it
appears that potentially what we're
looking at here is an increase over that
amount. Again, not affecting um you
know, goods that were um covered under
uh the the US uh uh Canada trade
agreement. Um but I think in context
with everything else that's happening
with Trump this week. I mean uh you know
he's obviously sending out more uh you
know tariff letters to a bunch of the
US's trading partners. He's uh really
kind of stuck to this August 1 deadline.
Remember earlier this week he was kind
of waffling over you know whether or not
that was 100% firm. Now he seems to be
charging toward um you know trying to
play more hard ball with places like
Canada uh with a lot of other trading
partners around the world and kind of
setting up this this idea of you know
want you to come to the table. Maybe
there's still room to negotiate. I think
that he's kind of left open the door a
little bit with uh you know some of his
latest statements on Canada for how they
could potentially negotiate more. Yes,
obviously shows that it's a very quickly
evolving story and of course we're not
even talking about the fact that we've
got all kinds of other tariffs that are
in the works on you know these 50%
copper tariffs obviously um existing
steel and aluminum tariffs so really
lots going on here but I think it does
show that yes tension still exists
certainly between uh Canada United
States right now
>> copper potentially 200% on farmer you
know just throwing that out there
earlier this week as well we've also
heard in this conversation with NBC that
he's looking at 15 or 20% tariffs on the
remain of trading partners that I guess
haven't been sort of named yet. He also
called out the EU in that conversation.
And we know that the EU is also still
trying to lock in this 10% tariff level
before August 1. Right. It's it it does
seem very chaotic at this point.
>> Uh yes, Heidi. I mean, it's incredibly
head spinning. Um but again, I think
just really goes to show you that um you
know, Donald Trump is working very fast
and loose here. I think the other thing
too that you have to keep in mind is
that when it comes to some of these
tariffs, uh, you know, one way that I
mean, you know, a lot of this does seem
somewhat political or emotional, right?
I mean, look at what happened with
Brazil just the other day, a trading
partner that actually runs a bit of a
trade deficit with the United States.
Trump really seized on um, you know,
some of his dissatisfactions with the
the brick uh, bricks coalition. Um, you
know, some of the comments that Lula was
making about the United States, that's
the Brazilian leader earlier this week.
Um and then ultimately um you know some
of Trump's feelings on the the former
leader of Brazil uh Jarbos Naro I mean
you know that kind of you know led to
him threatening these 50% tariffs on
Brazil. So I think when you're bringing
into to aggregate everything that's
going on with uh you know with Trump
right now obviously you know also uh the
threat of additional uh you know
sectoral tariffs as you kind of
mentioned there with pharmaceuticals.
Yeah. I mean lots of lots of fastmoving
parts. I think we're going to have to
kind of revisit where we are at the end
of the week and then ultimately I think
uh keep tabs on how all of this really
evolves up to that new August 1st
deadline that Trump has really set this
week.
>> And what about as well because he's put
another sort of earlier deadline in and
this one's on Russia and in this
interview he also spoke about having a
major announcement come Monday.
>> Yes. I think what we've really seen from
Trump over the last uh you know few I
mean few days certainly a little bit
longer than that is that um you know
he's really soured I think a bit on
Vladimir Putin. A lot of this kind of
comes down to the fact that Trump is
very dissatisfied with um his uh um you
know sort of his reading that Putin
isn't really coming to the table on a
Russia Ukraine ceasefire. Um the US is
planning to send um you know more uh
firepower to Ukraine. Um you know and
Trump remember back when he was running
for president and then ultimately when
he got elected he was uh um you know
saying that he wanted to reach an end to
this war within the first you know 24
hours or so of when he actually took
office. Obviously that has not happened
and so we have seen a lot of that
dissatisfaction kind of you know breed
with with Trump over Putin. Um he's had
been saying that over over the last
several days and so it does seem like
you know perhaps he's actually made a
decision. Trump also likes to set up
these little deadlines for himself. Um
you know remember this is a you know
former reality TV show host um you know
kind of setting you up for some prime
time viewing there. So yeah I mean it
could be that we have something very
significant coming on Russia on Monday
that kind of tracks with what we've been
hearing from Trump over the last several
days.
uh nothing if not uh making headlines
all the time right till Daisenberg news
desk editor and uh China's support
diplomatically economically when it
comes to Russia will be top of mind when
it comes to Marco Rubio the US secretary
of state set to meet with his Chinese
counterpart in Malaysia later today uh
it will be Rubio's first facetoface
conversation with Wangi as these Trump
tariffs geopolitics dominate
conversations in Koala Lumpa Bloomberg's
China correspondent Mllo joins us now
from Ko So what can we expect out of
this meeting?
>> Yes. Uh so this trip as you said the
Marco Rubio meeting with Wangi is going
to be the first one that they will have
face to face and of course there are a
lot of issues for the two sides to
discuss not just fentinu and fentinel
and the export controls on high-tech
goods uh but also as you said Russia now
a main sticking point. Marco Rubio said
that China has been doing everything it
can to help Russia without getting
caught and this is a main issue that he
plans to raise with China's Wangi and
this comes as uh President Trump has
said he's planning to announce something
major on Monday when it comes to Russia
possibly a sanctions package question is
whether there would be secondary
sanctions on countries like China that
has been buying things like LG oil and
energy products from Russia. Um so
that's a key thing. We're also wondering
whether they will be talking about um
laying the groundwork for a potential
Trump trip to China because we know chi
uh the US had already started to gauge
interest from businessmen whether or not
they will be willing to accompany Trump
on that trip. But Marco Rubio didn't
mention whether or not that is on the
agenda for now. Certainly an important
meeting to look out for because the two
men had a chance to meet in February at
the sidelines of the UN Security Council
meeting and they didn't take that
opportunity then. This time they will be
meeting and it will be interesting to
see what the Chinese foreign ministry
says about the meeting after the fact.
>> Min, we've also seen Wangi taking
meetings with other AEAN partners, other
bilites as well. What's been the
messaging from Beijing?
Yes, Wangi met uh separately with the
Vietnamese foreign minister as well. And
this is an interesting meeting to watch
because Vietnam is one of the few
countries that had already agreed to the
tiered tariff levels with the US 40% on
trans shshipment growth, trans
shipments, which is really targeting an
a backd dooror for many Chinese
exporters. It's interesting that Wangi
had said that China is willing to work
with Vietnam to ensure that the
legitimate rights and interests of all
countries are safeguarded. So
interesting that given, you know,
despite the rhetoric from China about
retaliating against countries that cut
deals that undermine Chinese interests,
the tone there appears to be still quite
constructive. This comes as Marco Rubio
is also about to meet with the
Vietnamese envoy later today as well.
Will they be working towards lowering
tariffs even further or working out
details about what exactly does trans
shshipment mean? Um there's also the
meeting with Japan as well. Japanese uh
the envoy there uh urging China to
ensure that Japanese companies will have
access to rare earths. But again, some
forward momentum as both sides uh
reaffirm the commitment to lift that
seafood ban and to start to slowly
resume as well um or work towards the
resumption of beef exports from Japan to
China. And again, Rubio as well going to
meet with the Japanese foreign minister
minister later today. This comes as US
and Japan has been um really not
agreeing very much when it comes to the
trade deal disagreements over rise
imports. Uh chi Japan now still has 25%
tariffs um from the US and has vowed to
keep negotiations going.
>> All right, Mim, great stuff. We'll be
back with you in the next hour. That was
Mim Lo there, our China correspondent.
And we are counting down, of course, the
open of trade in Shanghai, Shenzhen,
Hong Kong. Markets very sensitive to
these latest announcements from
President Trump around tariffs to come.
You're seeing Chinese futures here
looking fairly steady. This is the China
show. Happy Friday.
[Music]
So, we're not seeing a lot of tariff
inflation yet.
So
for that reason, I've been arguing that
we could start lowering the policy rate
from our current setting. That given
where the SCP or survey of economic
projections is, the policy rates still
pretty restrictive. So we could lower
that.
>> It's going to take time for the tariffs
to settle what people are actually
paying and therefore how they're passing
through. Uh when we look at surveys and
these are publicly available surveys uh
by several reserve banks. Uh the uh the
expected time that companies are working
with in terms of pass through something
like 3 months after feeling the initial
price increase whether directly or
indirectly.
>> Those were some Fed officials there on
the outlook for interest rates. And I
think that yes, you've got that sort of
perception or that idea that we're not
seeing tariff inflation just yet. But at
the same time, tariffs do continue to
dominate headlines. And just in the last
few minutes, we've had uh President
Trump looking to levy a 35% tariff on
Canadian goods. You've also had
President Trump speaking to NBC News
saying that he's looking at blanket
tariffs of up to 20% on most trading
partners. But let's get more on this
now. Bring in Stefan Hoffer, chief
investment strategist at LGT Private
Banking Asia. And I saw you nodding
there to what Chris Waller was saying,
the Federal Reserve governor, that we're
not again seeing that impact passing
through just yet. That's right.
>> Talk talk to us about that. Why aren't
we seeing it?
>> So, a a good estimate, I think, is is
probably for August or September in
terms of the data releases on on the
official CPI reports. Up until now, the
CPI reports have not really reflected
very much. What's also worthwhile to
mention is that import price indices
into the US are actually quite stable.
And so, that tells us that the
exporters, say, in Vietnam or China,
wherever else are not eating the tariff.
they are selling their goods into the
United States at the prevailing price
they were before. So that that sort of
again reinforces that we will get a
tariff bump in terms of CPI but probably
for us as investors we have to wait till
August or September to see that in the
numbers.
>> I think what's been sort of a bit
difficult to understand as well is it
going to be sort of a one-time impact or
does it sort of
>> unanch anchor or disanchor longerterm
inflation expectations? Absolutely.
>> Yeah. So what what happens? So if you
look at say for example University of
Michigan sentiment surveys forward
looking five years out households are
already saying that prices are going to
go up. So there is evidence that you can
say that inflation expectations are
moving up in the in the wrong direction.
I mean to talk about uh you know rate
cuts in that kind of an environment very
very tricky. Uh also you know obviously
with the June labor market report
unemployment is only 4.11%.
there's a very low level of unemployment
by any by any measure. So to to
speculate now about about a rate cut is
is is really tricky with the exception
that we have political pressure from the
white house that obviously they want
rate cuts done yesterday.
>> There is the question of whether the
transmission mechanism means that uh if
they are waiting to see evidence in the
data it might be a little bit too late
right particularly is how easily
entrenched inflation and tariff
expectations can be. Do you think that's
a risk?
>> Um, it is a risk, but I I think, you
know, frankly, we we are in uh uncharted
territory. We've never seen anything
like this. There is no playbook for
this. We've gone from an effective
import tariff pre uh President Trump's
second presidency of just below 2% to
the liberation day 27% down to, you
know, it's it's a moving target. And
this these kind of distortions are very
very difficult to map out and to model
where we land. Finally,
>> you're constructive on uh European
assets and both equities and the euro.
That market has really been bouncing
along almost on the expectation that a
10% rate will get dumped between the EU
and the US. We're now hearing as part of
that NBC conversation that Trump is
considering 15 to 20%. Does that take
the shine off the European rally?
um it it might a little bit on the
margin but our our you know our main
reasons for being constructive on Europe
and the euro is really has to do with
domestic policy in Europe itself. So the
massive uh infrastructure plans and
obviously also defense spending from
Germany which will run out to you know
2029 if if not longer this is a
long-term structural change. Now clearly
the tariffs uh Europe is very export uh
driven um is not helpful but the the the
driver behind why we're positive on
Europe really has to do with Europe
pulling itself together taking its own
destiny its own hands and and doing
something about it.
>> And I like how you talk about them
putting their destiny in their own
hands. But I mean we see of course a lot
of money being directed into defense
spending. What sectors stand out to you
in particular? So you know the European
market as you know in a way for
investors is is fundamentally less
attractive than the US from a sector
point of view. You know there's no
magnificent seven in in Europe. Um you
don't have the same technology giants
which are generating really remarkable
profits. So you have to talk about
banks, you have to talk about
healthcare, you have to talk about you
know luxury goods. Those those are fine.
But really what we're, you know, what
we're we're what we're excited about is
this idea that potential growth in
Europe can improve on the back of deep
infrastructure spending. Uh but we also
need to see which is very very difficult
to deliver but labor productivity gains.
European labor productivity is is low
compared to the United States and that
has to be adjusted.
>> Okay. And and in the interim period,
what else are you what else is standing
out to you? I see you've got quite a
bullish call on gold. Yeah. So we're
we're looking for 3650 on 12 months
which is you know around about 10% or so
from thereabouts from from the current
level. Um gold is you know in an
environment where you have rising US
inflation expectations to to fear that
gold will drop a lot seems unrealistic.
>> So in a portfolio context you know have
your 5% gold allocation as a hedge
against inflation should should be quite
quite okay. What's the risk then about
stagflation though and what happens if
that becomes entrenched?
>> Okay, so we've had the, you know, the
one big beautiful bill um that first of
all that that basically takes any
recession risk off the table. This is
completely unrealistic. You're going to
get a nice fiscal push, not a lot in
2025, but in 2026 quite a substantial
increase in US GDP as a result. So I
would say but then of course we have the
tariffs to deal with as well and and all
the complications with that stagflation
risks are there in recession risks
hardly any um that's our baseline view.
Mhm.
>> How do you feel about the US
exceptionalism story? Not just for the
remainder of this administration, is
there still a fair way to go? But, you
know, sort of ongoing, how much impact
do you think in the long term does it
have? Even if we assume that maybe, you
know, half of what President Trump says
doesn't materialize.
>> Yeah, that that's a very very difficult
question. Um there's certainly been a
lot of chatter in the market more
recently about you know the declaration
that uh uh the death of US
exceptionalism is is is wrong and that
there's a you know room for a rebound.
Um the longer that these policies stay
in place which is anti-free trade
anti-globalization
uh you're going to get a a a consistent
movement of global investors
diversifying their exposure from the US
to other markets. I'm not saying they're
going to dump everything. uh especially
when you think about the earnings
generation of something like the
Magnificent 7 which is truly unique and
truly American. Um but on the margin
you're going to get a lift in in uh in
the euro for example, maybe also the
Aussie dollar, maybe a little bit on the
Swiss Frank and so on. Investors are
looking for alternatives for sure.
>> Stefan, thanks very much for joining us
this morning. That was Stephan Hoffer
there, chief investment strategist at
LGT Private Banking Asia. As we've been
discussing or speaking, we actually just
got the yuan reference rate coming
through. The strongest one we have seen
going back to November of last year, but
at 71475
per US dollar, the estimate had been for
71781. But we'll get more context on
that just ahead. You're watching the
China show and this is Bloomberg.
[Music]
Take a look at what we're watching
across Credit China. Of course, uh the
overlay to all of this are these new
trade threats from President Trump, be
it some of the remainder trading nations
or these new levies announced when it
comes to Canadian goods. But we're
watching a number of things including of
course we know that foreign minister
Wangi is in KL who's potentially looking
for that meeting with Marco Rubio as
well. A lot to discuss there from trade
to Beijing's position on China. We're
also watching Chinese stocks as that
valuation gap is starting to close
between offshore and onshore. This is a
CSI 300 nears its highs of the year. We
also had that yan fixing which was also
the highest of the year as well. Uh also
looking to some of these pui suppliers.
Of course the chip restrictions continue
to be in play when it comes to the white
house. Crypto also seeking that revival.
We're seeing some pretty lofty um gains
as well, some pretty lofty goals when it
comes to options traders at the moment
as well, Bel.
>> Yeah, that's right. We can actually take
a quick look on on crypto stocks in a
moment, but in the interim period, just
having a look at what we're expecting
head of the open this morning. Uh we are
seeing fairly flat tech a little bit
under pressure so far today as well.
Looking like it's going to open in the
red, but but the big question marks
really around are we going to be seeing
any further support for the property
sector? also the the the trading gap
that we're seeing between A and H shares
another focus for us. But let's take a
look as you mentioned those moves we're
seeing in crypto because Bitcoin has hit
116,000 for the first time ever uh for
that token. Of course, it's that that
big thing that investors seem to be
looking past all of these trade risks
also going into those more risks
sensitive areas of the market and we
have seen names like WBY for instance
gaining very steadily over the past few
sessions. uh property stocks as we said
we are seeing this expectation we're
going to see more support from the polit
bureau uh perhaps some fresh stimulus
measures at the upcoming meeting in July
but yesterday a very strong rally to
close the session looking like it'll
extend as we get the open in about 3
minutes from now but you're watching the
China show as we said the open is next
and this is Bloomberg
[Music]
Welcome back. You're watching the China
Show this morning and we're counting
down to the open of markets. Look, we
had a bit more sort of risk on mood
coming into the session, but just as we
came into the show, uh, President Trump
was was back on his social media. He was
also speaking with NBC about this
prospect for further tariffs, perhaps a
blanket rate being applied to to to a
lot of trading partners up to 20%. And
so that sort of poured a little bit of
cold water over sentiment. And you've
seen that reflected, I guess, because
China's futures, Hong Kong, looking to
open relatively flat.
There was a moment there where I thought
it was going to be a quietish end to the
week this Friday, Rant. But I don't know
what we were thinking. Uncertainty
remains the only certainty when it comes
to the news flow these days when it
comes to trade. But yes, take a look at
what we're watching when it comes to the
start of trading across greater China.
And as Belle mentioned, it's
interesting. We've seen uh Jamie Diamond
might say it's complacency when it comes
to that tariff impact playing out in
these markets. But so far that
resilience starting to a little bit
shaky when it comes to the Asian
session. stocks broadly across the
region just losing momentum,
strengthening the dollar, some of those
haven uh plays there after Trump
suggested higher blanket tariffs on most
trading partners, plus the moves. When
it comes to Canada, this is a picture
when it comes to the commencement of
trading across Chinese markets. We've
also seen Chinese stocks, onshore
stocks, that is narrowing that gap with
Hong Kong as some of these policy bets
grow a little bit stronger. There are
some signs finally of a catch up from
onshore uh stocks as these valuations
some optimism over policy support. This
though after we've seen that lag
compared to Hong Kong stocks by the most
since 2008. So potentially a little bit
of momentum when it comes to trading in
Shanghai and Shenzhen. But today may not
be the day that we see that. Uh when it
comes to trading in Hong Kong though
muted upside about 4/10 of 1%. Tech
looking pretty flat. Mr. China up by
about 4/10en of 1% there as well. Uh
crypto is one element that we are
watching very closely given that we have
seen that sort of resurgence rally when
it comes to bitcoin extending the record
run. option traders now looking at
around 120 strike prices 115,000 as well
is part of that as uh crypto more
broadly not just Bitcoin a number of the
other tokens extending uh what has been
a real resurgence in that rally partly
being fueled by institutional demand
partly rising kind of demand from
treasury companies cryptore companies I
should say as well um something of a
validation for these sort of
long-suffering crypto bulls but they
very also quite interesting that we're
starting to see that kind every
cororrelation between equities and
crypto now.
>> Yeah. And I'm actually just taking a
look at at Horby and and how it's really
performed this week. I mean, it's a gain
of more than 30%. So, it does tell you
that at least some traders are very
bullish on the outlook for
cryptocurrencies. But in terms of what
we see as well, that divergence between
A and 8 shares. Actually, Chinese
equities are showing signs of catching
up after lagging their Hong Kong peers
by the most since 2008. Our Asia
equities reporter Charlotte Yang is with
us. And and you've been looking into
this trend. So, so what are you seeing?
>> Yeah. So, um after the first half of
lacking like momentum, you know, seems
like the Chinese onore market is finally
getting some of that mojo back at least
for this month. So, you're looking at
the CSI 300 that's set for the third
consecutive weeks of gains now trading
near a high this year and also uh market
turnover on monthly basis has also been
improving. So, there are like a few
things that has rekindled um investors
interest for the onore market. So you
have the Chinese authorities talking
about curbing those aggressive uh
pricing competitions and also potential
uh over capacity in key sectors such as
solar. So um solar shares have really be
rallying u as some investors hope that
this will help improve their um
profitability and also heading into the
July polar bureau later. um there's
there's more attention in terms of on
the policy messaging front and also on
Hong Kong after um a pretty strong round
this year the valuation appeal has come
down a little bit and also the narrative
has changed um so before it was all
about AI and also new consumption still
going but for AI because of the pricing
competition we're seeing in the quick
commerce sector and the food delivery
sector so basically now the talk about
Alibaba is no longer about the deepseek
that potential is now about um what that
means for the margins and profit
Is there sort of really that optimism
when it comes to property stocks, right?
There's been sort of the awaiting for
big bang policy measures for a while
now. Is that still in play?
>> Yeah. So, I think there was a lot of
fast money that poured into the Chinese
property sector yesterday which caught a
lot of people by surprise. Um there was
this unverified social media uh some
unverified social media reports talking
about how we might have a high level uh
meeting u attended by top leaders in
China that could be reminiscent of the
2015 central urban work conference and
that that essentially giving you know
more support uh to the property sector.
So that has kind of triggered you know
bats that we'll be seeing more of those
chant redevelopment playbook playing
again. Um but uh we have to remember
that those property stocks the penny
stocks the outsides move and and I think
overall the broader market has been
quite restrained in terms of pricing
action. I think that shows you know the
skeptism of that um of those um verified
reports and but I think I think going
forward what's quite important is to see
because before I think the investor
expectations heading to the poly bureau
meeting is still quite low given that
they they think China is on track to
reach its annual uh GDP target this year
but if um we see more kind of these you
know speculations or rumors going around
um let's see if bottom market if they
add more probably that shows investors
have high expectations going to the key
meetings later this month.
>> Right, that was our Asia equities
reporter Charlotte Yang there. Thanks so
much for joining us and let's get more
on this now. Bring in Alysia Garcia
Herrerero, chief Asia-Pacific economist
at Nixus and and Alysia, I mean I think
even if that was sort of fast money
yesterday moving into the property
sector. I'm taking a look at the
Shanghai Securities news for instance
today and they're still saying that
there could be more stimulus to come in
the second half. what is your
expectation around that and what's your
expectation as well for the polit bureau
meeting?
>> Yeah, so we've been actually expecting
uh for quite a while uh stronger
stimulus in the second half because the
first half and we're going to see that
loud and clear today is actually very
positive for China. We we were expecting
much worse export data than we've seen
for the first half of the year and
that's true even for June. So we're
going to have a good GDP number. But
second half of the year, that's where in
a way things could
really get worse. Uh both in terms of
exports, but also in terms of the whole
sentiment, you know, it it so because
the second half of the year is to be is
expected to be much worse. Um I think
they need to stimulate further. They
have started already. It's just a
question of how much more they will do.
But I think obviously what complicates
this is just not knowing exactly how
these tariff negotiations are going to
go and you've got that deadline of
course for August. I mean sort of that
positivity you talk about in the first
half is that more just the frontloading
effect as well.
>> It's the front loading and it's the fact
that liberation day ended up very you
know in in in nothing only on the 9th of
April for all of the rerouting that
China has been playing around. So now
you know the rerouting will be much
harder second half.
>> So that's going to hit Chinese exports
indirectly. So that's why second half is
tougher and the government has been
preparing. I think they're going to
announce more on the monetary and fiscal
side. Fiscal we know they've been
issuing now by now the fiscal stance in
China is at least neutral if not
positive. It was negative throughout
2024. So we already are in a in a
stimulus phase, but it's going to be
more so that they can hit the target,
which is not too far. I have to say
first half was so good. So they just
need to do more, but not like a big
bang. I I'm not expecting a big bang.
It's just more of that, more of what has
been sustaining the economy so far.
Yeah.
>> Is sort of more of the same enough when
it comes to boosting animal spirits. How
do you gauge those particularly you know
both in terms of investment um business
sentiment but also households?
>> Yeah, I mean I'm not expecting much on
households. We actually uh looked in in
detail into the issuance so far first
half of the year and it's all into infra
that's what's happening. It's not
household support. the the household
stimulus package basically vouchers is
around 41 uh billion equivalent US
dollars very small so don't expect a big
change in consumption that's not what's
going to drive growth in China this year
what is sort of the longerterm risk when
it comes to the the the deflationary
mindset for China right because I think
part of the concern is that perhaps big
enough measures particularly when it
comes to direct to consumers haven't
really come through. How easily is this
sort of mindset entrenched particularly
when it comes to the consumer?
>> Yeah. So there is three sources of
deflation in China which we know real
estate and I think that's why they are
kind of already thinking look demand
measures are not enough. We need to
support developers. There you go. That's
what we see, you know, in the market uh
only recently and that might ease
because they're going to support it. I
think they realize that these deflation
operations can't last. The second one is
obviously overcompetition. They're
dealing with that. But the third and
most difficult one is consumer support.
I mean changing their mindset about
consuming and paying higher prices for
consumers. Not only consuming, it's
about the prices that Chinese households
are ready to pay. and those prices come
down every month. So to change that, I
think that's the hardest part and it's
going to really take a a massive change
in sentiment. I don't know where this is
going to come from. It would need
structural reform which we're not
seeing.
>> But point two and three is that sort of
linked because if you've got companies
that are cutting prices, consumers
expecting to pay less. I mean it seems
to be linked to the involution trend and
and we are getting signs now that that
China is taking this maybe even more
seriously than before. So what would we
expect then on that front?
>> Yeah, it will help. You're right. But
I'm not sure it's enough because a lot
of the lack of consumption and even you
know the ability to pay higher prices is
related to the to the general outlook. I
mean what do you expect from your wage
income from your
uh financial wealth and that is not yet
changing. Yes, we might see a little bit
of a better uh Shanghai composite index,
but you know, before we say, "Wow, the
market is booming, let alone real estate
prices," there's a long way to go. So,
the third um third pillar for for
deflation to disappear in China is yet
to be pushed. I think we're not yet
there.
>> Okay. So, so then again, what what does
get us there? What are you expecting?
So what I'm expecting is that China's
imbalanced growth will continue. That's
what I'm expecting. And you know, some
may not like it.
>> But how does that then factor into their
conversations with the EU? For instance,
you know,
>> EU I mean there will be hardly any
conversation. Um I call it a non-summit.
So that's that's as bad as it gets. It's
only a one-day visit by now since we may
show up for a while. But you know
there's no real like you know there's
not going to be a communicate or
anything that really improves those
relations. So the EU is very wary of all
of this uh kind of lack of consumption
over capacity even if measures are
taken. I think China still needs to
export its way out. That's clear.
>> Yeah. I guess it's that's that big
question though is how long can they
continue to export their way out when
you've of course got those deteriorating
relations with the EU and then the
global south as well.
>> Yeah. Uh but frankly uh I think they can
for a long time. Let me tell you why.
It's very simple. If you're Lula and you
hear what Trump is telling the world on
on CNBC on Bolsonaro, your dependence on
China will only increase. You see? So so
it's all about how bad Trump may treat
any anybody else. And this is true for
the EU as well. The EU might not get in
a deal with China, but they may not
impose any additional tariffs because
the US is pushing them not to do so in a
way. So I think it can go for a while.
>> All right, that was really great. Thank
you so much. That was Alysia Garcia
Herrerero, the chief AP pack economist
at Nixus and we'll have plenty more
ahead. This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
Taking a look what's happening this
morning with uh the currency space. Of
course, a lot of that focus and
attention has been on what's happening
with the Canadian dollar. The looney has
been sliding this morning after
President Trump says the US or said the
US is looking to impose a 35% tariff on
Canadian products starting August 1. Uh
so we have seen a lot of reaction to
that in the markets. Also watching other
currencies, those more trade sensitive
ones to the US, including the Mexican
peso there, you can see likewise under
pressure. But sticking with Canada
because the foreign minister says she's
looking to build free trade agreements
with Southeast Asian countries. Anita
Anan spoke to us at the Azan meetings in
Koala Lumpa. This was before President
Trump announced those plans for a tariff
on Canadian goods.
We are a Pacific nation ourselves and I
am here the Carney government's first
visit to the Indoacific. My first visit
to the Indoacific to stress the
importance of multilateralism.
Multilateralism in trade and economic
matters in particular. We need to ensure
that we are building resilient supply
chains, that we are diversifying and we
are establishing those trade
relationships. We are currently
negotiating with Azan a free trade
agreement and we look forward to the
conclusion of those negotiations. In
fact, I'll be meeting with the
negotiators today as well as members of
the business community because we have
to remember that there are numerous
stakeholders, businesses on the ground
in Azen and in Canada who will benefit
from this free trade agreement when it
is finalized.
>> So, how long can we expect when will
this thing be signed? And also, Canada
already actually have pretty robust
agreements with Asian countries. So how
much more can this agreement actually
push for expanding trade with this
region?
>> You are exactly right. We have trade
agreements that are very versatile and
very robust with multiple regions and
countries throughout the world. In fact,
we're the only G7 country that has a
free trade agreement with every other G7
country. But given the stress in the
global economic environment, it is
necessary for us to do more. And that is
why this free trade agreement between
Canada and Azan is so very important. We
will be continuing to work with elacrity
to finalize the text of that free trade
agreement to ensure that those resilient
supply chains for the benefit of
business and other stakeholders
continues to occur. Let's talk about
some of the sectors that has been hit by
central tariffs from the US. So autos,
steel and aluminium these are sectors
where Asian countries are also exporting
the same product. So Asia is not likely
to absorb the kind of uh supply from
Canada. If you are reducing reliance
from the US, where else will you look
for market for those products?
>> So those tariffs are hitting us as well
and we believe they're unjustified and
we're engaged in complex negotiations
with the United States to address the
tariffs and to ensure that we can come
to an agreement on the subject of Azan
countries and Canada. What we want to do
is to continue to support
multilateralism
to continue to show the world that as
there is global stress in the
geostrategic environment, Canada is a
partner that will always show up to open
the doors to trade to open the doors to
free trade to open the doors to
multilateralism.
Canadian foreign minister Nita Nand
they're speaking with Bimber's Menllo in
Koala Lumpa. Taking a look at some of
the corporate headlines today and Nvidia
CEO Jensen Huang has met with President
Trump at the White House. But sources
who confirmed that meeting did not
reveal details of what was on the
agenda. It comes days before Huang is
expected to make a trip to China. Nvidia
CEO was a frequent visitor to the
mainland and has been vocal about the
need for US companies to access the
world's largest semiconductor market.
Champion Morgan is considering cutting
the weight of top bond issuers in its
key emerging market index including
China and India. Documents seen by
Bloomberg show it's gathering client
feedback on changes to the benchmark
which guides over $200 billion in funds.
The proposal includes lowering a cap on
individual countries from 10% to 8 12%
which could increase the average yield
of the benchmark.
Well, the billionaire Richard Lee's
talks to expand his insurance business
into mainland China are said to have
stalled. Sources say that's after his
father Lee Kashing's company moved to
sell global ports, including two in
Panama, to a group backed rather by
Black Rockck. That deal triggered high
level anger in Beijing. FWD made its
trading debut in Hong Kong on Monday
after a $446 million IPO.
TSMC shares are little changed in Taipei
this morning. That's after revenue
jumped nearly 40% in the June quarter,
beating analyst expectations. Based on
its reported monthly figures, the chips
chipmaker sales rather climbed to $ 32
billion for the 3-month period. That's
adding to hopes of a sustained boom in
AI spending. TSMC CEO said last month
that AI chip demand continued to
outstrip supply. And I think these
results are actually really interesting
to watch also from more of the currency
angle because it's been of course a
period where we've seen really rapid
moves in in the Taiwanese dollar. And
when you take a look at what analysts
are saying, they're saying that that
sort of ended up presenting a 5%
headwind to the results that implied
that actually the results could have
been a bit of a beat on what analysts
had been expecting. But in the in the
end, I guess roughly in line, but still
positive on on the outlook for AI
spending. Yeah, it's interesting when
you take a look at sort of some of the
unforeseen implications of things like
currency that played into this number
right as you mentioned but uh that sort
of 39% rise amid the AI spending boom
and I suppose the question is really how
much further along could we see that
really continuing and how much more
runway is there also the spending side's
been interesting as well that pledge to
spend $und00 million ramping up
manufacturing uh but a lot of that
uncertainty really kind of depends on
what we see between the US and China and
how that sort of broader supply chain
picture plays out as well. But Bel, it's
been quite interesting that we've seen a
lot of investors kind of piling back
into the AI AI adjacent play as well.
Right after the kind of you know
deepseek uh perhaps derived doubt over
valuations and the amount of investment
that we've seen there has been something
of a recovery.
>> Yeah, that's right. I think it's it's
it's that idea that we had deepse
concern around would it mean less demand
for compute power in the end it just
seems to be more applications of AI and
the sort of proliferation of the
technology instead. So still supportive
for stocks like Nvidia and of course
this week that milestone of entering the
the the $4 trillion club for the first
time ever attaching that mark and the
first one to do that as well. We're
taking a quick look at at how Asian
markets are trading in the session today
because as we've been saying very
headline sensitive, very sensitive to
Trump's announcements on trade, but we
have seen a bit of a reversal of sorts
and actually the hang improving nearly a
percent as we head into the morning
session. We'll have plenty more ahead.
You're watching the China Show and this
is Bloomberg.
[Music]
Tesla shares jumping on plans to expand
its robo taxi service into California
and Arizona after his recent roll out in
Texas. Ilon Musk expects the robo taxis
could launch in the San Francisco Bay
area in a month or two pending
regulatory approval. Tesla has also
applied to operate in Arizona's Phoenix
area and a decision is expected by the
end of July. Bloomberg has learned that
Chinese hardware giant Huawei is trying
to export small quantities of AI chips
to the Middle East and Southeast Asia.
Sources tell us the company has reached
out to potential customers in the UAE,
Saudi Arabia, and Thailand about
purchasing its older generation Ascend
processors. The move is part of efforts
to establish a foothold in markets
dominated by Nvidia.
Taking a quick look at at the market
action as well, because if there's one
stock standing out so far today in the
session, it is Xiaomi once again. But uh
the the the headline here is that
they've delivered over 300,000 cars in
the last 15 months. That's according to
to reports from the company on social
media. But uh what this means really is
is the key pillar or a key pillar for
for Xiaomi is continuing to stay strong.
It's all about devices. It's about uh
cars and also home appliances as well.
But again, that's the story there.
Taking a look as well what's happening
with Wooi Appech here because we've had
their prelim first half net income and
and pretty strong there as well. So
again, you're seeing that trading
reaction in the session so far. uh
broadly in the session the the markets
here are looking to do a little bit
better actually you're seeing that
continued improvement particularly in
the hang watching what's happening in
the hang tech space again more than 1%
in the green have more context on why in
the hour ahead you're watching the China
Got it.
[Music]
Welcome back to the chatter show. Take a
look at the HSI half an hour into the
trading session and we're seeing some of
that risk aversion really play out
across Asian indices at the moment uh
with some of that concern over yet
another trade missive from President
Trump this time targeting Canada but
also alluding to potential further trade
action on some of these remaining
trading partners that we haven't
specifically seen uh sort of be isolated
over the past few days or so the idea of
blanket tariffs between 15 to 20%. He
name checked the EU as well which we
know of course have been hoping for that
10% deal to be done. At the moment
though we are still seeing quite a bit
of upside when it comes to greater China
chart. The Hang index trading near those
session highs. We're also seeing uh that
gap also being gradually closed a little
bit more when it comes to offshore
versus onshore stocks. Bill.
>> Yeah, I really just it's it's just whips
I would say. we get the sort of
immediate reaction to the tariff
headlines and then it sort of traders
shrug it off once again and we're seeing
that really being reflected in the
sentiment today because we did actually
see uh the broader index giving up its
gains but again we've started to trade
higher once again US futures though are
still a bit in the red and we're
watching of course some of those key
markets the nicay for instance under
pressure here Taiwan uh fairly flat
after we had those TSMC earnings but
again that big focus on what's happening
with the dollar dynamics given we did as
we as well see that strengthening on
these higher tariff rates and watching
the Canadian dollar because that has
been weakening this morning and the big
headline is this as you said this this
imposed 35% levy rather on some tariff
goods or goods rather from the country.
>> Well, let's bring in Bloomberg MLAV
strategist Mary Nicola who joins us in
Singapore. Mary, we were just hearing
from the likes of Jamie Diamond worried
about the complacency that markets have
had in reaction to potential tariff
implications.
Can you explain this sort of dynamic
wrap? Because there does seem to be an
underlying assumption that things won't
be as bad as what previously markets
thought they would be, that perhaps uh
President Trump would sort of back off,
but we've had a couple of days of that
rearing back up of aggressiveness.
>> Yeah, I think it really comes down to
what we've been seeing in the data. So
the data has really shown that the US
economy is actually holding up and
that's one of the reasons why you've
seen um equity markets continue to rally
as a result of that. So you haven't
really seen the cracks in the data just
yet which is why you can argue that the
markets have tended to be a little bit
more complacent and then even heading
into earnings season the bar is set so
low that you might actually see some
upside as a result. So I think in
general until you see the fundamental
shift and the fundamental cracks in the
data then you can start seeing um at
least equity markets reacting. Until
then you're likely to see that
complacent complacency especially when
you're hearing that um for example this
morning there's 35% tariffs but then
they're opening for NE open for
negotiation. So that sets the precedent
of that the Trump administration can
backpedal once again.
where we are seeing I guess a lot of
this really being reflected though at
least that immediate reaction is in in
the currency space and we're watching
the Canadian dollar and the euro in
particular this morning.
>> Yeah, absolutely. I think one of the key
things that we've seen during this trade
war is the reflection of how the equ how
the um FX markets in particularly react.
So largely that has to do given the
breath and depth of the currency
markets. It's the first one to get hit.
But what I did find interesting today is
just the reaction that we've gotten from
the CNY fixing and how that has been
steadily showing strength despite what
we've seen um in the wake of all these
tariff noise and but essentially what is
going to be the reaction is that a lot
of the currencies that are linked to the
CNY are likely to benefit but really
under the limelight is going to be the
Canadian dollar and the euro and largely
because we're still waiting on the final
announcement on EU tariffs and that
could come within the next few hours or
by Friday. So, we still don't know. And
of course, there was a lot of excitement
earlier this week about a potential 10%
tariff, but now with the idea of 25%
that's going to keep a lot of FX traders
jittery.
>> Bloomberg live bio strategist Mayor
Nicola there in Singapore. Well,
geopolitics in focus uh when it comes to
what's going on in Kale at the moment
too. The US Secretary of State is set to
meet with his Chinese counterpart in
Malaysia later today. This would be
Marco Rubio's first face-to-face
conversation with Wangi as Trump tariffs
dominate these conversations in
Malaysia. Bloomberg's China
correspondent Mim Lo joins us now from
KL. So, what are we expecting from this
meeting?
>> Yes. So, the State Department announced
this new addition to Marco Rubio's sh uh
schedule earlier today. It appeared to
be a lastminute addition. Obviously a
very highly anticipated one and it it
tells us that perhaps the temperature uh
between US and China is warming up a
little bit because the two men Wangi and
Marco Rubio had a chance to meet face to
face in New York in February but they
didn't use that opportunity. This time
they are finally agreeing to their first
face-to-face meeting. Of course we are
wondering whether or not they will be
discussing a potential Trump trip to
China. But Marco Rubio didn't mention
that. He said top of his agenda is
Russia. He said China has been providing
as much help to Russia as possible
without getting caught. That's something
they want to talk about and it comes
ahead of President Trump's uh
announcement uh on the coming Monday
potentially announcing new sanctions of
on Russia. There's also the question of
whether down the line we will be getting
secondary sanctions on countries like
China who which buys a lot of you know
oil LNG from Russia. So that's the big
question. And of course there are a lot
of trade issues to discuss as well
though that's not um under the portfolio
of uh Marco Rubio. Scott Besson has said
that he will be meeting his Chinese
counterparts in the coming weeks but it
does seem like relations are on slightly
better track now especially after the
two sides agreed to keep to the terms of
the Geneva deal.
Yeah, just on that point, we did have
that that Bloomberg scoop earlier this
week about how there's these drone
documents that are essentially drawing a
line from from China to Russia in terms
of of collaboration around UAVs. But the
other sort of big sticking point of
course is the relationship between China
and the EU and you and you spoke to the
foreign policy chief as well. So what
did you learn from that conversation?
>> Yes, Ka Kalas gave us an exclusive
interview here. Obviously, she's here to
deepen ties uh with Azan countries, but
I asked her whether she'll be meeting
with Wangi, who's here at the same place
as her, because tensions appear to have
been escalating after Wangi's recent
trip to Europe with China imposing new
anti-dumping duties on some European
products. Uh and she said that she's not
going to meet Wangi. She says she
doesn't see any potential for forward
movement on trade. And the only thing
really that both sides really agree on
whether they have common interest is
climate change. And she confirmed that
the EU China meeting or summit is only
going to be one day and there will be no
business delegation who will accompany
Ursula Vanderlayion. But I also asked uh
actually have a listen first to what um
uh what uh Kayakalas mentioned when I
asked her whether there is double
standards being applied in response to
China's assertion that the EU has been
providing its own subsidies to its
producers and manufacturers.
>> Our subsidies are in accordance with the
WTO rules. So so this is very very
clear. We want a level playing field. We
are very worried about the economic
coercion of China and we are also
worried about their enabling Russia's
war in Ukraine. So these are the two big
issues we have.
>> So a couple of sticking points there.
Russia economic coercion. I asked Wangi
as well whether or not that EU China
summit is being shortened and here's
what he said.
>> Will the upcoming China EU summit be cut
short?
No, there's no such thing.
>> There is no such thing. I wouldn't
really say that this necessarily
contradicts our reporting because
initially we heard from sources there
was going to be a leg of that trip in
the EU China summit that goes to Hi, a
place that is near to Shanghai. We heard
that that was going to be cut short. But
bear in mind, China hasn't officially
announced that this summit is even going
to happen. We are expecting China to
announce it only when the final details
have been uh really set in stone. So
he's saying that there is no such thing.
It's not being shortened. But again, it
shows you that EU China relations really
not in a good place right now.
>> In terms of some of the other bilats
that Wangi has held with other AEAN
partners, what was the messaging here?
Yes, Wangi held a meeting with the
Vietnamese foreign minister and this was
quite surprising because Vietnam is one
of the few countries in Southeast Asia
that had already signed the the the
agreement the tier tariff level uh with
the US 40% on TR shipments and given
that China has warned that any countries
that sign a deal that undermines Chinese
interest will face retaliation from
China. I was expecting to hear perhaps
some warnings from China, but the tone
actually was pretty constructive. Wangi
saying that China is willing to work
with Vietnam to ensure that the
legitimate interests of all countries is
being safeguarded. So pretty positive on
that front. He also met with the J
Japanese foreign minister as well and
also some positive momentum. The Japan
envoy did urge China to ensure that
Japanese companies will have access to
rare earths, but they agreed as well to
work towards the resumption of beef
exports from Japan to China and reaffirm
that the seafood ban on Japan will be
lifted as well.
>> That was Bloomberg's minimo there for us
from from the Azian meeting in Koala
Lumpur and we'll have more ahead on the
China show. on one of the key issues
that China of course is facing this
effort uh from Beijing to curb their
over capacity in key sectors. How
they're falling short on that front as
well. We'll get the view from Goldman
Sachs just ahead. This is Bloomberg
[Music]
Well, Bloomberg's been told that
Nvidia's Jensen Hang has met with
President Trump at the White House just
days before he that's Jensen Hang plans
to travel to China. Our chief North Asia
correspondent Steven Angel joins us with
the latest. So, it's obviously the
timing around this. you know, you can't
overstate the importance, but but what
would he hope to achieve just as he of
course heads across to China?
>> I think this story is pretty easy to
draw conclusions on what is being talked
about in the White House. And reporters
say they saw him enter the White House
just before 5:00 a.m. Hong Kong time, so
8:00 p.m. East Coast time. So, that was
about 5 hours ago. It's either a very
long uh meeting with Trump or it's
already concluded. And we don't
necessarily have any lines coming out of
the White House yet as these two
gentlemen meet ahead of Jensen Huang's
trip to Beijing where he's going to be
meeting with the commerce minister as
well as we're hearing fun who's leading
of course the Chinese delegation on
trade talks with Trump. So I'm sure he's
going to get a briefing from Trump or
Trump's going to give him a briefing on
what exactly he can do in China. Jensen
Hong, you've met him several times. I've
met him as well before. He is adamant
right now uh that these export controls
are essentially um giving an unfair
advantage to his chief competitor in
China, Huawei, and that they're losing
out billions of dollars potentially in
China as well. They're also readying, of
course, their next chip uh to sell into
China. Whether he's getting verbal
approval to do that, we don't know. But
apparently this next generation of the
Blackstone RTX or RFX Pro 6000 due to be
uh available as early as September to
sell to China which would be a
replacement for the H20 uh which was
originally sold to China but then banned
uh by the Trump administration. So
they're trying to find which
technologies in the chips are going to
be accepted under um the Trump
administration's export controls that
also don't necessarily need very you
know arduous licensing approvals uh from
the US government.
>> We're also learning that Nvidia's top
Chinese competitor Huawei is trying to
make inroads perhaps small inroads with
its chips to the Middle East and in
Southeast Asia as well.
>> Well that makes sense doesn't it? So the
the sources who are telling us this, you
know, we already knew prior that Huawei
had potentially tried to work or has
done a deal in Malaysia only for
authorities in in Koala Lumpur to sort
of downplay that. Now we're hearing that
Huawei is trying to make inroads in
selling its lower generation AI
accelerators or processors to the places
like the United Arab Emirates, Saudi
Arabia as well as Thailand. We don't
have confirmation necessarily, but it
makes sense. We sure do know that Huawei
has global ambitions. Uh, and those
markets though are absolutely dominated
by Nvidia for those kind of high-end AI
chips. So, if this is true, it would be
kind of it would make sense, wouldn't
it? uh that they're trying to look for
markets uh where they feel that they can
get a little bit of traction and then as
they ramp up we all know they do not
have Huawei does not have the advanced
chip uh production numbers like an
Nvidia or AMD others uh but what we do
know about China is they have the
absolute ability to scale to volume when
they need to and when the technology is
there and when they have those
customers. So they're looking for
customers right now.
Chief North Asia correspondent Steven
Angel there. We do have plenty more
ahead. This is Bloomberg
[Music]
up front or just generally.
>> Welcome back. back. You're watching the
China show and some of the big headlines
that we're tracking this morning.
Ukrainian President Vladimir Zilinski
says he's optimistic that the US will
ramp up military aid, including air
defense technology. Zalinski says he had
a positive dialogue with President Trump
over the delivery of Patriot missile
batteries. He was speaking at a
conference in Rome that was slated as
that was slated as a discussion on
Ukraine's postwar recovery, but instead
focused on repelling Russia's ongoing
attacks.
Israel says it's giving the US a 60-day
window for diplomacy to remove what it
calls the Iranian nuclear threat. Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu says on X
that should the negotiations fail, the
objective will be attained through other
means. Israel launched a 12-day war
against Iran last month aimed at
stopping Thrron's nuclear and missile
program with the US launching its own
strikes in support.
And Israel reportedly believes that some
of Iran's underground stockpile of
enriched uranium survived last month's
US attacks, US and Israeli attacks
rather. The New York Times cites a
senior Israeli official saying some of
the material may still be accessible.
The same official says Israel has
uncovered a secret Iranian project to
build a bomb late last year. Evidence
which has been shared with Washington.
Australian
Prime Minister Anthony Albania heads for
China tomorrow on a mission to boost
economic ties whilst navigating opposing
security interests. Our Asia-Pacific
economy reporter Swip Pande joins us
now. Uh let's start off with the economy
which has uh the economic relationship
has meaningfully improved since the
tensions of the past few years. What's
going to be on the table? So definitely
the trade relation uh they are going to
they are going to be companies uh
delegation of companies including Arnor
miners and banks uh so BHP billetin
forsq HSBC um and mquari they are all
traveling with um albenezi there's going
to be a CEO round table there's going to
be an international supply chain expo
that China is hosting so there's going
to be a lot of discussion around the
economic relationship and trade
relationship further boosting that. Uh
probably something around trade
agreement may come up as well. So we
will definitely see a lot of headlines
and press releases and uh discussions
that will come up on that easy topic as
well.
>> Yes. And I guess more focus on um you
know peopleto people so-called um
services as well given that obviously
there's going to be a finite amount of
um iron ore that we can continue
shipping given you know the nature of
the Chinese economy now too. Yes, that
is a concern. And Bloomberg did
Bloomberg did a story about how uh China
was buying a lot of our iron ore to uh
basically prevent volatility or price
spikes in the country given their huge
demand. Uh and that is not good news for
Australian miners. So definitely there
will be discussions around that as well.
uh it is hard to see anything major come
out of that. Uh but definitely there
will be discussions around how that
relationship can be deepened.
>> What about the security um geopolitical
aspects? Uh it's it's looking like this
will be raised as well and Albanesei did
a standup earlier uh few hours ago and
he was asked this very question by
journalists and he did say that he will
raise uh security uh and human rights
issues with China. So there will be
those difficult conversations as well.
uh they will be behind doors behind
closed doors and it is quite possible
that they will not uh issue any
statements on those particular issues
but Albanesei did say that he will talk
about those.
All right, that was our Asia-Pacific
economy reporter Swati Pandy there. And
of course, as we prepare for for Anthony
Albanzi, the Australian prime minister
to head to China, there is the Azan
summit or meeting rather that's underway
in Koala Lumpur. And there we have seen
China's foreign minister Wongi urging
for for cooperation and collaboration
among Southeast Asians and also o
opening or urging them to to uphold
their openness as well. And to that end,
we've also seen efforts from Canada and
the foreign minister there saying that
she's looking to build free trade
agreements with Southeast Asian
countries. Anita Anan spoke to us at the
Azar meetings in Quoala Lumpur. And this
was to note before President Trump
announced plans for a 35% tariff on
Canadian goods.
>> We are a Pacific nation ourselves and I
am here the Carne government's first
visit to the Indoacific. my first visit
to the Indo Pacific to stress the
importance of multilateralism.
Multilateralism in trade and economic
matters in particular. We need to ensure
that we are building resilient supply
chains that we are diversifying and we
are establishing those trade
relationships. We are currently
negotiating with Azan a free trade
agreement and we look forward to the
conclusion of those negotiations. In
fact, I'll be meeting with the
negotiators today as well as members of
the business community because we have
to remember that there are numerous
stakeholders, businesses on the ground
in Azanne and in Canada who will benefit
from this free trade agreement when it
is finalized.
>> So, how long can we expect? when will
this thing be signed and also Canada
already actually have pretty robust
agreements with Asian countries. So how
much more can this agreement actually
push for expanding trade with this
region?
>> You are exactly right. We have trade
agreements that are very versatile and
very robust with multiple regions and
countries throughout the world. In fact,
we're the only G7 country that has a
free trade agreement with every other G7
country. But given the stress in the
global economic environment, it is
necessary for us to do more. And that is
why this free trade agreement between
Canada and Azan is so very important. We
will be continuing to work with elacrity
to finalize the text of that free trade
agreement to ensure that those resilient
supply chains for the benefit of
business and other stakeholders
continues to occur. Let's talk about
some of the sectors that has been hit by
sectoral tariffs from the US. So autos,
steel and aluminium these are sectors
where Asian countries are also exporting
the same products. So Asia is not likely
to absorb the kind of uh supply from
Canada if you are reducing reliance from
the US. Where else will you look for
market for those?
>> So those tariffs are hitting us as well
and we believe they're unjustified and
we're engaged in complex negotiations
with the United States to address the
tariffs and to ensure that we can come
to an agreement on the subject of AEN
countries and Canada. What we want to do
is to continue to support
multilateralism
to continue to show the world that as
there is global stress in the
geostrategic environment, Canada is a
partner that will always show up to open
the doors to trade, to open the doors to
free trade, to open the doors to
multilateralism.
Well, that was the Canadian Foreign
Minister Anita Anan speaking with
Bloomberg's Mimlo in Koala Lumpur. And a
quick check on what markets are doing
here because we're just about to go into
the Japanese market break. One of the
names standing out to us for for
probably the wrong reasons, but it's
Unilo. This is the Unilo owner fast
retailing. Here you can see that drop,
but essentially their earnings have
missed estimates and that is down to
weak sales in China. Also on on another
note is the crypto front because we saw
Bitcoin hitting $116,000
or $1,000 per token for the first time
ever. We've seen a very strong run in
cryptolink stocks across the course of
this week, but traders are still liking
those riskier pockets of the market.
We'll have more details ahead. This is
Bloomberg.
[Music]
It is 11:29 a.m. in Tokyo. Japanese
markets are headed off to the break in
just a minute. We are seeing some moves
when it comes to uh dollar yen at the
moment. Dollar yen rising just about
half a percent and sitting at around
that 147 level. this as markets continue
to really kind of uh recalculate the
tariff risk with President Trump now
threatening the 35% tariff on Canada as
well as money potentially as high as a
20% global tariff rate on other trading
partners that haven't been spoken about
at the moment. He's talking about
letters sort of going out over the next
day or so. So given that some of these
partners including the likes of
Australia have a current 10% tariff uh
this could be quite a severe escalation
if that turns into 15 or 20%. So we're
seeing some of that sort of reaction
play out across uh certainly risk assets
across Asia but this is a picture as we
see Japan heading off a little bit of
upside there when it comes to trading in
the topics. balance.
>> Yeah. And taking a look, as you said,
cross markets, I think if there's any
sort of consistent theme that we're
seeing this morning, it is that story
around dollar strength and it's where
you're seeing that biggest reaction
really to to this risk of further tariff
and the jitters around that as well. But
generally, we've kind of seen markets
also fluctuating a little bit in the
session and today we're actually lifting
up a little bit as we head through the
session. Though, of course, not too much
conviction right now, but the Msei Asia
Pacific index is up 4/10en of 1%. uh and
we're seeing a lot of those sectors in
the green even if it's just by by really
a slim margin. But let's get to what is
really one of of the the key issues that
we see. And actually just on that point
around around the trade jitters, we're
getting some commentary coming across uh
from from the the Azan meeting that's
underway in Malaysia uh with between
foreign ministers there. But we're
getting some commentary from Wongi. He's
he's saying that the US abuses tariffs.
They undermine the free trade system as
well. And and so that is of course again
playing into the market dynamics this
morning. It is a big question as well.
How do those relationships play out
between the US versus China? Also their
trading partners they're trying to work
with as well and how much flexibility
are there from trading partners to take
on extra Chinese capacity. And as we've
seen uh Beijing has been trying to
tackle this problem. They've raised a
threshold for green power requirements
for China's polysilicon, steel, and
cement makers as they are seeking to cut
excess production in those sectors. A
recent report from Goldman Sachs has
found that the state of over capacity in
China is largely unchanged over the past
year. So, let's bring in one of the
authors of that. Trina Chen is the
bank's co-head of Greater China Equity
Research and an analyst on basic
materials and agriculture. So Trina, I
think I think the question is
this has been a a a long recognized
issue in China. Now it does seem like
the the needle is moving though for
policy makers to take greater attention
to this. What are we seeing exactly?
What can we expect to see on this front?
Yes, I I think the disappointment in a
sense that you know in the past 12
months as you mentioned you know kind of
this really analysis of the seven global
significant sector the over capacity
changes um really comes from there has
been very little uh discussion around
the actual capacity but a lot of work
was about how do we provide a reprief uh
to the industry in terms of you heard
this this week about anti-involution
that has been something has been
discussed and been excised in the past
one year. Uh I think what we're seeing
now is number one I think there has to
be a recognition that around
non-capacity kind of approaches and that
typically just temporarily provide a
reprief uh it doesn't fundamentally
change the problem. uh I think last week
we have seen the central government
committee meeting and uh there is a hope
at least the direction of the travel of
a policy is now there's a recognition
about capacity exit the scope of
anti-evolution
involution that could be widened that
could also actually touch on some of the
capacity expansions
>> but why do we see then the the greater
attention right now why is it becoming a
bigger issue is it about trying to lift
profit margins for businesses or is it
about trying to shift maybe a
deflationary mindset that's becoming
entrenched? Is it about negotiations
with between China and and other trading
partners? Why now exactly?
>> Well, I I think it's a little bit of
everything you just mentioned, but the
top priority is perhaps if you look at
this industry, the the biggest
reflection of everything you're seeing
is pricing. So we've seen big price
deflation between 23 and 24 and from
last summer when some of the address
policy shift took place coming into this
year we have not seen fundamental
changes. In fact there may be some
deceleration in the price decline but
fundamentally the level of over capacity
capacity has not changed. The degree of
fragmentation has not changed.
uh competition remains intense
and to certain extent something probably
negative is the difference between best
producers and tail end of the industry
also become less or narrower versus a
year ago. So uh deflation obviously in
the near term in my observation is one
of the key focus but in the meantime you
can also see discussion around the local
government extreme incentives to
capacity addition in their local
administrative region regardless of what
happens elsewhere and that has been I
wouldn't say the key drivers but at
least exabated the degree of over
capacity
uh we think there has been at least some
discussion around that
hopefully uh actual actionable items
follow to follow up tra I'm glad you
mentioned the role of local governments
because this is this is such an old
playbook when it comes to economic
policym and industrial policym for China
right like it it's not new and in fact
it's not the first or perhaps even
second time that we've seen solar reach
these over capacity levels
Why does it keep happening and is this
just a fundamental sort of structural
element in the way that industrial
policy is set by Beijing?
>> Well, I I think it's it's
to a certain extent is related to what
is really driving the incentives or the
their KPI of these uh local officials
and for all these years I think growth,
GDP uh those are very important drivers.
uh despite we would say quality of the
GDP is important but
>> having an advanced manufacturer setting
up a factory in the local province and
bring all the supply chain over and
having the future VAT income still is
very attractive to local government. I I
think in the recent XS theory which is a
part CCP one of their uh kind of
official journal they've also discussed
how
arbitrary and extreme some of this
incentive and subsidy being provided and
for us analysts when we look at this to
certain extent when it happens
it actually changes inflated probably
the project irr where in the cycle as
such it actually still encourage some
capacity addition and we should step
back and thinking what do we need to see
to see over capacity being addressed. So
if you have a growth sector, you
actually do not need to see capacity
exit, if you slow down your capacity
addition. In fact, you at some point you
will be able to rebalance the market and
that's something we hope I think we have
seen cycles have done this work in terms
of pricing low margins. But if I think
the local government issue is being
addressed, I would say that could
certainly facilitate deceleration of
capacity addition and therefore
accelerate the supply rebalance.
>> Trader, when it comes to EVs in
particular for that sector, how much
more adjustment and and capacity
consolidation do you see there?
Well, EV sector I think you know in our
in our work basically present probably
one of the the worst picture in terms of
the profitability fragmentation and
direction where is actually going and I
think we have all seen the price
competition this year has you know
certainly surprised many of us after all
these years changes
in fact despite of all that we actually
still see EV sector have sizable
capacity expansion plan despite all
these changes. So I think the sector
itself now it's not only a factor of
capacity utilization but it's also a
factor is intrinsically now it looks a
lot more fragmented than a lot of other
sector. there is no defined really clear
leader in terms of profitability
uh such as we can see in the lithium
battery sector that's actually quite
different. Um so this is a sector in our
opinion with a very very steep kind of a
uh cost differentiation especially the
tail and the producer is now deeply in
cash negative
and with I think the supply demand
balance it is now we would call it is
probably most prepared and most in need
of consolidation
catalyst wise my sense is one of the key
things we have seen sort of elevated the
sector or temporary supported sector was
the trading program that started last
year and the magnitude of this pull
forward demand could be as much as 15%
plus. We don't know when the trading
program will taper off, but when it
does, we think it will serve as a
catalyst for a down cycle that is truly
needed actually to get the sector at
least back to cyclical rebalance.
>> Trina, that was that was really
fascinating. That was Trina Chen there,
co-head of Greater China Equity Research
and China basic materials and
agriculture analyst at Goldman Sachs.
And coming up, we'll we'll take a closer
look at Vietnam's economy and how it's
been caught in the crossfire in trade
tensions between China and the US. That
report by our team at Bloomberg
Originals is next. This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
Vietnam's trade deal with the US
includes a 20% tariff rate, but also
gave it a first mover advantage in
Southeast Asia. Bloomberg Originals has
been investigating why Vietnam needed to
secure a deal. Now, take a preview.
A land once devastated by American
bombing
now accounts for half of Nike's global
shoe production. Hundreds of other
American companies and their suppliers
have manufacturing bases in Vietnam,
too. As the Southeast Asian country's
annual GDP climbed, exports to the US
grew. Now, Vietnam is one of the
countries most dependent on American
trade.
>> The United States is Vietnam's largest
export market.
>> Vietnam's massive trade surplus with the
US has made it a key target for Donald
Trump.
The problem is they charge us 90%, we're
going to charge them 46% tariff.
>> If Vietnam were to lose access to the
American market, that would have a
profound effect. It would ripple across
the economy,
>> which is why this was imperative for the
Vietnamese government.
>> President Trump says he's reached a
trade deal with Vietnam following weeks
of intense diplomacy between the two
nations.
Unlike military conflicts, trade wars
are at least fought without bloodshed.
But they can still do damage. And even
with a deal, the economic relationship
between the US and Vietnam faces an
uncertain future.
Manufacturing is the lifeblood of modern
Vietnam.
>> It is now uh a major player in the
global supply chain. It is making
everything from Apple iPads to Samsung
smartphones, Nike shoes.
>> But Nike is just one of a long list of
apparel companies manufacturing in
Vietnam. Lululemon, Adidas,
Abbercrombie, and others source huge
percentages of their products here.
Since the turn of the millennium, global
brands have reshaped the appearance of
provinces like Dong Nai, where clusters
of factories now produce and export
everything from t-shirts to specialized
machine parts.
Exports in general represent about 90%
of um GDP. It's absolutely critical for
the growth of the economy, of lifting
people out of poverty. And after the
last American troops withdrew in 1973,
there was a lot of that.
>> Postwar Vietnam was one of the world's
poorest countries. It had been drained
of resources after years and years of
war.
>> Vietnam suffered significantly under
collectivism in the 80s and because of
the fall of the Soviet Union at the same
time and bad economic policy, it had to
reform. The government began to relax
its control of the economy and created
policies to attract foreign investors.
>> That included tax incentives, building
out the right infrastructure that these
companies wanted, and generally having a
very open attitude to global
manufacturers looking at Vietnam.
Bolstered by the country's cheap,
hard-working, relatively young, and
educated labor force, as well as
political stability and proximity to
China, the strategy worked. More than
$600 billion of foreign investment has
flowed in since 1988. Exports have
surged and as we've heard, now make up
about 90% of the country's GDP.
as much as 30% of those land in the US,
making America's trade deficit with
Vietnam its third largest by country,
behind only China and Mexico. And that
imbalance has only grown since the first
Trump administration, in part due to
policies enacted then. During Trump 1.0,
Vietnam emerged as the biggest winner of
US China tensions. Vietnam became a
place that investors gravitated towards
to tap into the US market where the
arbitrage between tariffs in China
versus Vietnam became wider. This was
part of a hedging strategy known as
China plus one where companies began
relocating some production to Vietnam to
avoid tariffs slammed on Chinese goods.
>> A good example could be footwear where
the global economy continues to depend
on China. Vietnam is a key alternative
to that.
>> Jung Min Koy is a manager at Yangqeng
Wooden Industries which makes and
exports wood furniture to the US. He
remembers the impact of Trump 1.0 know.
Well,
Vietnam. Trump 2.0 is very different in
that instead of targeting China alone,
which Vietnam benefited from, we now
seeing tariffs on Vietnam itself.
>> Vietnam's government anticipated some
sort of tariff from the Trump White
House. They did not anticipate a 46%
tariff. They were shocked to put it
bluntly.
>> Liberation day.
>> The impact of the announcement was
immediate.
[Music]
He says now that's down to as few as 100
containers a month because of reduced
demand. This will likely have a ripple
effect on communities around
manufacturing hubs.
>> You could see factories laying off
workers. You could see plants perhaps
shutting down.
>> Vietnam isn't alone in facing these
effects. What sets it apart is the
potential scale of them. It's one reason
the government has responded so
proactively.
>> They were one of the first governments
to reach out to the White House and say,
"Hey, let's start talking." The
officials have repeatedly said, "We will
buy very big ticket US products such as
aircraft, LNG, uh anything that will
help reduce the trade gap."
>> The tactic appeared to work with Trump
announcing the two sides had reached an
agreement,
>> giving full market access to American
companies while slapping a 20% tariff on
all Vietnamese imports. One of the
biggest sticking points in negotiations
was a US demand for Vietnam to get
tougher on trade fraud and do more to
prevent Chinese goods being rerouted and
repackaged through Vietnam to skirt
higher tariffs.
>> And that's exceedingly difficult for
Vietnam because so many of the factories
here, they rely not just on components,
not just on material, but they rely on
machinery that comes from countries like
uh China. It's like asking Mexico to
stop having a trade relationship with
the United States. While the US is the
biggest market for Vietnam, China is his
most important geopolitical
consideration. China sits on top of
Vietnam. It has a very complicated
relationship. The last war that both
countries fought was actually against
each other. That is the relationship it
has to be most delicate about and is the
forefront of its consideration in
foreign relations. Over the years,
Vietnam has been able to navigate
tensions between the US and China
through a strategy known as bamboo
diplomacy.
>> Vietnam, like a bamboo, knows how to
bend in the wind, so to speak. So when
the winds are shifting, it knows how to
shift along with it. They have learned
how to dance between these big giant
between Washington and Beijing.
>> Vietnam must now repeat the feat
managing relations with two competing
superpowers while preserving its export
reliant growth model. Targeted measures
are possible and that is where Vietnam
can find its sweet spot in order to
appease the US but at the same time
maintain its key relationship with
China.
And if you want to watch that right now
again, you can do so on the terminal or
at bloomberg.com. It'll also be
available later on the Bloomberg
Originals YouTube channel. And you can
also watch us live on our interactive TV
function, TV go. You can also dive into
any of the securities or Bloomberg
functions we talk about and become part
of the conversation by sending us
instant messages. So check it out at TV
go. This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
Taking a look at some of the big movers
in the session today and the EV maker
NEO is is absolutely standing out for us
here. You can see that pop. But what
we've got is is essentially the the car
releasing or the automaker rather
releasing a new SUV model that is seen
as competitive. It's important of course
because we were just speaking with
Goldman Sachs about really the EV sector
broadly being one that is ripe for
consolidation and a lot of fragmentation
very very competitive as well. So that's
that's NEO. But let's also take a look
at what's happening in the China
brokerages space because again you're
seeing some really sharp moves here. Is
this something possibly that's related
to the crypto jump that we're seeing?
Because of course across the course of
this week, you've seen a big rally in
crypto prices. Bitcoin hitting $116,000
and we know that a lot of different
brokerage units are either getting
approval or at least seeking licenses in
Hong Kong to offer virtual asset link
services. So that is the state of play
there. But Heidi, of course, that big
focus on what's happening with the with
the wearer stocks.
>> Yeah, sort of trade adjacent, right? One
of those things we'll be watching quite
closely. We're seeing, as you can see on
your screen, really broad upside there
when it comes to trading in uh some
names including Northern Rare Earth,
other Asia shares tied to Critical
Minerals, including Aluca and Linus here
in Australia as well. Following their
USPS higher, MP minerals securing that
$400 million equity investment from the
Department of Defense to build a new
plant, a billion dollars financing
commitment from JP Morgan and Goldman
Sachs as well. We saw uh that stock up
about 51% on Thursday, and we're seeing
that follow through here in Asia as
well. Airlines are also in focus after
Delta issued a strong earnings outlook.
Said vacationers are coming back as
well, better than expected second
quarter numbers, reinstating that profit
outlook for the year as well. So, we're
seeing broad upside when it comes to
Asian aviation names. This is Bloomberg.
[Music]